# Focus and Details

Although the overall story revolves around Kirby's struggle to defeat eNeMeE, the majority of the episodes have a separate focus on more mundane events which take place in Dream Land, and the show takes a largely comedic and goofy tone most of the time. In particular, the dynamic between King Dedede, his subjects, and the surrounding countryside offer room for a great deal of social commentary relating to the real world. The most notable examples of this are the environmental messages often tied in to the stories of particular episodes, with a prime example being King Dedede's repeated attempts to cut down a sentient forest near the town in order to build a country club. Many of King Dedede's other schemes also end up damaging the local environment, such as causing severe acid rain from factory pollution in Labor Daze, shifting the climate to an unnatural winter in Dedede's Snow Job, and creating a hole in the planet's ozone layer in A Sunsational Puzzle.

In addition, the people of Cappy Town act as an analogue to human civilization, and commentary on wider societal issues are often expressed through their collective behavior and attitudes. Notable examples of this are the effects of mass media propaganda in Un-Reality TV, tendencies toward superstition and mob mentality as shown in Mabel Turns the Tables, and lack of accountability toward the common good as seen in Junk Jam and A Trashy Tale. Individual characters also have a chance in these episodes to gain character development as they struggle with the problems the episodes throw at them, as well as relating to each-other. Even the perennial villains King Dedede and Escargoon have opportunities to gain sympathy through certain redeeming actions, though the formula that keeps them as Kirby's antagonists is never interrupted by such moments.

Notably, Kirby: Right Back at Ya! takes several opportunities to make references to other popular media outside of the Kirby franchise and Nintendo as a whole. As a few examples, many of the show names cited in the in-universe broadcasting service Channel DDD are references to real-world movies and TV shows. In addition, several episodes are directly inspired by other media, including A Novel Approach (based on the Harry Potter franchise), One Crazy Knight (based on Don Quixote), and Caterpillar Thriller (based on the Mothra franchise). Smaller references to media such as Ikiru, Gone With the Wind, and Steppenwolf are peppered throughout the show through character dialogue, episode names, and visual representations.

Lastly, the show focuses heavily on food and cuisine, which ties in to Kirby's characteristic bottomless appetite. A large handful of episodes focus almost exclusively on food culture, which makes the supporting character Chef Kawasaki more prominent than most. A great amount of focus is taken by the show's illustrators to make close-up shots of food dishes incredibly detailed and life-like, and such dishes are often commented on with specific reference to their names and ingredients. The most prominent examples of this can be found in episodes such as A Recipe for Disaster, The Meal Moocher, and Hunger Struck.
