# *Kirby: Right Back at Ya!*

*Kirby: Right Back at Ya!* is an anime television program which is based on the Kirby series. It was produced jointly by Nintendo and HAL Laboratory through a subsidiary company called "Warpstar, Inc." and was directed by Sōji Yoshikawa and Mitsuo Kusakabe, with supervision and the original draft coming from Masahiro Sakurai. The show originally aired on October 6, 2001 in Japan through CBC Broadcasting and consisted of one hundred episodes aired in the morning on a weekly basis, concluding on September 27, 2003. The show would later be dubbed into English by 4Kids Entertainment, and aired on Fox Box from September 14, 2002 to December 9, 2006 with intermittent pauses and changes in episode ordering. An HD remaster of the show on Blu-ray was released in Japan on March 14, 2023.

The show follows Kirby, taking the role of a space-faring hero who has a child-like demeanor and is incapable of regular speech. He crashes his starship into the kingdom of Dream Land, where he stays in order to battle monsters summoned by the land's greedy and tyrannical King Dedede from the evil intergalactic corporation Night Mare Enterprises. Over the course of the show, Kirby gradually becomes stronger and more experienced - aided by his close friends Tiff, Tuff, and Meta Knight - while consistently foiling the plans of King Dedede, his assistant Escargoon, and the main villain eNeMeE, who has largely conquered the universe and is trying to destroy the remaining Star Warriors who oppose him. Eventually, Kirby and his allies launch an attack on eNeMeE's space fortress in the final episode, thus putting an end to Night Mare Enterprises, liberating the universe, and depriving King Dedede of his main means of harassing his subjects.

The story and universe of Kirby: Right Back at Ya! are distinct from that of the main video game series, with only minor overlap in terms of design choices and character attributes. Most of the story takes place in the kingdom of Dream Land, which is portrayed as an Earth-like peninsular landmass surrounded by open sea and situated in a tropical climate. The planet which Dream Land is situated on is never explicitly named in the 4Kids dub of the show, but supplementary material confirms it is Planet Popstar; in the Japanese version, it is specifically referred to as Popstar by Sword Knight in the Japanese version of Cappy Town Down. Despite this, the planet is never seen as a whole like it is in the games, so it is not clear if it has the same shape and characteristics. Other planets and locations in outer space are sometimes seen in the show, most notably eNeMeE's Fortress in the final episodes.
